CAPE TOWN, South Africa, November 13, 2018/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            AfricaCom 2018 (tmt.knect365.com/AfricaCom) will be another landmark event for Nokia (Nokia.com). This  year, the company will again showcase how it is shaping the future of technology to transform human experiences with effortless, simple and dependable technologies. The Nokia team would love to meet you at AfricaCom to discuss any topics that you are interested in and demonstrate our latest innovative products, solutions, and services.







In today’s digital-driven world, a dramatic shift is underway, changing how businesses connect with their customers, how industries are run and where technology enhances how people live and work. In a hyperconnected world, a change in customer demands is also forcing organizations to become more data-driven to ensure that they can deliver on those expectations.


                                Connectivity is critical to digital transformation on the continent and 5G will gradually become the core of investment and innovation across both infrastructure and technology
                            

Nokia will be showcasing the latest innovations and engaging in discussions on ultra-broadband, the value of 5G in enabling the Internet of Things (IoT), digital transformation and the importance of encryption and Virtual Reality (VR). Take part in several focused showcases that include 5G NR Virtual Reality demo, 5G / E2E Automation, Autonomous Customer Care, 5G Future X Network vision animation and IoT use cases. Nokia’s Community Hosted Connectivity Solution, which will be on display, will showcase the unique way to reduce the expense associated with providing mobile connectivity in rural and remote areas, while the WING Smart Agriculture as a Service demonstrates how CSPs can offer an affordable, subscription-based smart agriculture solution, allowing farmers to access weather, soil and crop data for timely actions to increase yield, decrease costs and mitigate risks.



Joachim Wuilmet, Head of Customer Marketing and Communications MEA, says AfricaCom 2018 will be the perfect opportunity for customers to engage with Nokia experts to catch up on the latest developments in the dynamic African telecommunications market. “Connectivity is critical to digital transformation on the continent and 5G will gradually become the core of investment and innovation across both infrastructure and technology. This is the path to unlocking new opportunities and leading the race to the future. Our demonstrations will show how it is possible to unleash the full potential of your network today, and how to flexibly build and scale your business for the digital future.”

Wuilmet says Nokia is excited to share its next generation of network technology with the broader African market and is confident in the potential of the continent: “Africa is the perfect place to share Nokia’s vision of shaping the future of technology to transform human experiences with effortless, simple and dependable technologies. We look forward to discussing how both existing and new customers can use technology to improve people's lives.”



AfricaCom 2018 takes place at the Cape Town Convention Centre from 13 – 15 November 2018. Nokia will be at stand C95.

For more information, visit https://tmt.knect365.com/AfricaCom/