CAPE TOWN, South Africa, November 22, 2018/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Members of the media are invited to the Launch of 2018 Inter Legislative Games to be held at the Good Hope Chambers, Parliament on Monday 26 November 2018. The primary aim of the games is to promote the agenda of wellness and healthy lifestyle in the legislative institutions. They also create an opportunity for Parliament and other legislatures to interact and build relationships through sport and recreation.





The Inter Legislative Games were founded by Parliamentary Sports and Recreation Council (PSRC) in 2013 and participation is open to all provincial legislatures. Provincial legislatures of the Free State, Eastern Cape, Gauteng, Kwazulu-Natal, Limpopo, Mpumalanga, North West are currently active participants in these games. Participation to the games is reserved for Members of Parliament, Members of the Provincial Legislatures and staff members in the Legislative Sector.  About 1 500 participants in diverse sporting codes are expected to take part in this year’s games.



The Inter-Legislative games have a vital role to play in realising the objectives and the targets of the National Development Plan’s (NDP) by encouraging a long and healthy life for all South Africans; a diverse, socially cohesive society with a common national identity and a better healthy South Africa contributing to a better Africa and a better world.



During the launch, the speakers will outline the aims and objectives of the games and also an exciting programme which is designed to ensure that the 5th leg of the Inter Legislative Games in the Western Cape from 29 November to 1 December 2018 is a success. Among those in attendance to make presentation at the launch is Dr Zukile Luyenge, MP, PSRC Chairperson, Mr Godfrey Tsotetsi, Member of Provincial Legislature (MPL) in Gauteng and Chairperson of GPL Oversight Committee on the Office of the Premier and the Legislature. Honourable Girly Nobanda MPL in North West Province will also address the launch.
                                About 1 500 participants in diverse sporting codes are expected to take part in this year’s games
                            



The theme for the 5th Inter Legislative Game is: “Promoting healthy lifestyle through sport within Legislative Sector”



DETAILS OF THE LUANCH ARE AS FOLLOWS:

DATE: 26 NOVEMBER 2018

TIME: 12.00

VENUE: GOOD HOPE CHAMBERS, PARLIAMENT



Members of the media who want to cover the launch must RSVP to Mlindi Mpindi mmpindi@parliament.gov.za or 081 716 7329 and copy Namhla Luhabe namhla@nwpl.org.za