BRUSSELS, Belgium, November 15, 2018/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Mr. Donald Tusk, President of the European Council, Mr. Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission, and Mr. Cyril Ramaphosa, President of the Republic of South Africa, met in Brussels today for the 7th Summit between the European Union (EU) and South Africa, and noting that the last Summit took place in 2013, issued the following statement:





We, the leaders of the European Union and South Africa, reaffirm the importance of our Strategic Partnership based on shared principles, equality and interests. We note that our

meeting takes place 100 years after the birth of Nelson Mandela and is an opportunity to build on his unique legacy.







Multilateral cooperation

We recommit to working together to support multilateralism, democracy and the rules-based global order, in particular at the United Nations and global trade fora, to jointly promote development, security and human rights for all. South Africa’s upcoming term as an elected member of the United Nations Security Council in 2019-2020 presents an opportunity to enhance cooperation on peace and security. As part of our commitment to stronger global governance, we support the process of UN reform, including efforts on the comprehensive reform of the UN Security Council and the revitalisation of the work of the General Assembly. We agree that enhanced cooperation will be vital in multilateral fora addressing global challenges and crisis situations. We agree to coordinate positions, where feasible, in view of the upcoming G20 Summit in Argentina.





We are determined to promote free, fair and inclusive trade and the rule-based multilateral trading system with the World Trade Organization (WTO) being at its core, and serving the interest of all its members. We are deeply concerned about the systemic impact of protectionist measures that are incompatible with WTO rules and that put the multilateral trading system at risk. We commit to work together to address the root causes of the challenges faced by the multilateral trading system through strengthening the WTO with the aim of improving its effectiveness and functioning as well as overcoming the present difficulties regarding the effective functioning of the Appellate Body of the dispute settlement mechanism.





We also commit to engage in discussions at the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) on investor-state dispute settlement reform, while further engaging in discussions in other relevant fora on provisions in investment treaties especially on how to facilitate and promote more investment towards sustainable development.





We welcome Iran’s continued commitment to the full and effective implementation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), as confirmed by the IAEA in thirteen reports, and in line with its obligations under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We call on the remaining parties to the JCPOA to continue to honour their commitments under the Agreement. We recall that the JCPOA, which is working and delivering on its goal, is a key element of the global non-proliferation architecture and a significant diplomatic achievement endorsed unanimously by the UN Security Council in its Resolution 2231. We stress the importance of the preservation and continued, full and effective implementation of all aspects of the JCPOA, which includes sanctions lifting and the consequences arising from it, in the interest of regional and international peace and security. We call upon Iran to play a constructive role in the region and to refrain from any activities which are inconsistent with UN Security Council Resolution 2231.





We share concerns about the erosion of the global norm against the production, use and stockpiling of chemical weapons. We fully support the work of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons in strengthening implementation of the Chemical Weapons Convention.





We express our joint commitment to ensuring a successful outcome for COP 24, including the Paris Agreement Work Programme and the mandated high level events, in pursuit of the objective of the United Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). We have taken note of the latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) special report, which unequivocally confirmed the negative impacts of climate change and indicated that global emission reductions in all sectors are crucial and that further action is needed in mitigation and adaptation, notably to reach the temperature goal as set out in the Paris Agreement.





We commit to strengthening cooperation on migration, which requires a comprehensive international response, including to address the root causes of irregular migration. We note that safe, orderly and regular migration can contribute positively to growth and sustainable development in countries of origin, transit and destination. We take note of the discussions at the United Nations level on the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration and the Global Compact on Refugees, which can contribute to strengthening the international response to migration flows and refugee situations.





We agree to strengthen cooperation at the United Nations Human Rights Council and other multilateral fora and to continue to engage on human rights issues in the framework of the South Africa-European Union Structured Dialogue Forum on Human Rights, especially as regards the respect for, the promotion, protection and fulfilment of all universally recognised human rights and fundamental freedoms in multilateral fora, supporting the moratorium on death penalty as a first step towards its universal abolition, ensuring the full implementation of all human rights of all women and girls as an inalienable, integral and indivisible part of all human rights and fundamental freedoms, empowering women and girls and achieving gender equality, eliminating all forms of gender-based violence, protecting the rights of the child, advancing the rights of people with disabilities, as well as preventing and punishing the crime of genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity in compliance with the international human rights law and international humanitarian law. We confirm our commitment in particular to the full and effective implementation of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action, the Copenhagen Declaration on Social Development, the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action and the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development, and the outcomes of their review conferences.


                                We welcome the revival of the South Africa-EU Forum on Environment, Climate Change, Sustainable Development and Water
                            



We underline the importance of reinforcing global and regional natural resources governance, including tackling illegal exploitation, in order to promote sustainable development, especially in relation to minerals and wildlife. We will take forward our joint work in the Kimberley Process, as well as in the context of CITES, and in particular its 18th Conference of the Parties in May-June 2019. We agree to step up cooperation on ocean governance building on the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) and follow-up to the 2018 Our Ocean Conference.





Bilateral Cooperation

Over the past years the EU and South Africa have deepened cooperation through twenty policy dialogues in areas such as climate change, natural resources, science and technology, research and innovation, employment, education and training including digital skills, health, energy, macro-economic policies, human rights and peace and security. We welcome the revival of the South Africa-EU Forum on Environment, Climate Change, Sustainable Development and Water. In this regard we agree to further cooperate in the areas identified in the Terms of Reference of the dialogue, which include bio-diversity, circular economy and water resources management issues among others, also involving our private sector operators.



We acknowledge the strengthening of science and technology cooperation through new strategic focus areas of cooperation, including in the marine, bioeconomy and nanotechnology sectors, while opening-up to more innovation oriented activities. This has been facilitated through several scientific exchanges as well as the signing of the Belém Statement on Atlantic Research and Innovation Cooperation; the joining of the International Bioeconomy Forum as well as through the upcoming signing of the Collaboration Arrangement with the Joint Research Centre. The area of research infrastructures remains a key area for continued cooperation. We look forward to stepping up collaboration in key areas such as open science, big data platforms, digital and Information and Communications Technology, as well as sectors linked to Industry 4.0. These are important for our joint efforts towards innovation as well as growing the necessary jobs and skills base. We welcome and support initiatives in the science and research domains that are of benefit to Africa, including the European Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership.





We reaffirm our commitment to enhance cooperation towards addressing challenges of inequality and poverty, to achieving gender equality and our shared interest in fostering investments notably towards sustainable development, decent jobs, especially for young people and using a gender-sensitive approach. Our partnership should contribute to South Africa’s socio-economic transformation agenda in support of the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the African Union’s Agenda 2063.



Since South Africa’s first democratic elections in 1994 and the signing of the Trade, Development and Cooperation Agreement (TDCA) in 1999, the EU has supported comprehensive development assistance programmes with a total contribution to South Africa amounting to €3 billion. We agree to work towards the consolidation of gains achieved and continue to support good governance and democracy, innovation, exchange of expertise and best practices. New strategies and tools for cooperation and the use of innovative instruments such as blending and guarantees will also be considered to diversify our cooperation and enhance its effectiveness. The EU and South Africa will, amongst others, explore the opportunities provided by the EU External Investment Plan under its three pillars.





Recognizing the EU as a significant and long term investor in South Africa, we commit to exploring all of the opportunities for investment, technical assistance including project preparation, and the improvement of business and investment climates to promote sustainable development. Acknowledging South Africa’s successful hosting of the Job Summit and Investment Conference in October 2018 that showcased new opportunities for investment in South Africa, as reflected in the Case for Investing in South Africa, and policy initiatives that are helping to create an investment-friendly environment, we agree to strengthen cooperation on investment in support of economic development, infrastructure, industrialisation, skills development, small business development and entrepreneurship in accordance with the priorities identified in South Africa’s socio-economic agenda. We support the digital transformation of the economy in an inclusive manner by supporting digital innovation, digital infrastructure, the information society, and by fostering digital skills for all, in order to boost overall productivity, social inclusion, living standards and an efficient use of natural resources. 





We agree that attracting direct investment will contribute to support growth and fight against poverty, unemployment and inequality in South Africa. Therefore we are committed to enhancing bilateral investments by improving skills for employability, and by ensuring a conducive and value-based business environment, within transparent and predictable policy and regulatory frameworks, and with the aim to ensure accountability and competitive practices. To this end, we agree to establish, where appropriate, an ad hoc multi-stakeholder dialogue on investment, with the aim of deepening strategic cooperation in key sectors. We exchanged views on land reform and the Constitutional process in South Africa and how to maintain investor confidence, promote agricultural production, improve food security and reduce poverty, as key components of our partnership.





We reiterate our commitment to respecting the WTO Agreements on Sanitary and Phytosanitary (SPS) Measures and on Technical Barriers to Trade (TBT). In order to find mutually acceptable solutions to impediments to trade in agriculture, agri-food and manufactured goods, we agree to strengthen our dialogue and cooperation on TBT and SPS  issues, including regionalization concerns of both the EU and South Africa. We welcome the conclusion and provisional implementation in 2016 of the EU-Southern African Development Community (SADC) - Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA), which has created the foundation for a new and mutually beneficial economic relationship between the EU, South Africa and the other partners of the EU-SADC EPA. We underline the benefits of the full and effective implementation of the EU-SADC EPA, including with regard to expanded and enhanced protection of Geographical Indications (GIs) as provided for in the EU-SADC EPA. The implementation of the EU-SADC-EPA in line with the developmentorientated focus of the Agreement can make a significant contribution to reinforcing mutually beneficial and inclusive trade and to enhancing regional integration.





We also commit to work towards a prompt resolution of trade impediments – including the agriculture and agri-food sector – affecting smooth trade flows, where relevant, bilaterally and/or with other ADC EPA Member States in the framework of the EU-SADC EPA.





Regional cooperation

We confirm our commitment to a stronger and sustainable partnership between the African Union and the EU and agree to the full implementation of the outcomes of the 5th AU-EU Summit in 2017, and to continue to support and solidify the gains made by the African Union’s Agenda 2063, its First Ten Year Implementation Plan and the various African Flagship Programmes. We welcome the new Africa-Europe Alliance for Sustainable Investment and Jobs as put forward by the European Commission.



We confirm our common resolve to reform the future relationship between the EU and the countries of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States. We look forward to the successful conclusion of negotiations for a post-Cotonou Partnership Agreement that will contribute towards the attainment of the 2030 Agenda on Sustainable Development and Agenda 2063.





We welcomed each other’s role in fostering peace and security in our respective regions and noted South Africa’s important regional and continental role in peace and security. We agree to identify possible areas for cooperation on Security and Defence and related matters. We further agree to explore opportunities to enhance our cooperation in peace and security, conflict prevention and in mediation, including through exchanging best practices and lessons learned from our respective engagements, and to identify opportunities for concrete operational cooperation, dedicating special attention to advancing the global Women, Peace and Security agenda, especially in promoting meaningful participation and leadership of women in peace processes.