GENEVA, Switzerland, November 7, 2018/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Temenos (SIX: TEMN) (Temenos.com), the banking software company today announced the launch of its South African “Bank of the Future” Think-Tank. The venture, which involves a quarterly gathering of some of the brightest minds in South African banking aims to address domestic and global challenges and opportunities facing financial institutions in the country.







Over 60 experts from 30 banks and financial institutions are expected to take part in this initiative over the coming year, promoting knowledge creation and sharing as well as actively responding to the complex opportunities and challenges of today’s banking environment. The think-tank also plans to release a series of short videos as well as a report by the end of 2019, presenting insights and conclusions derived from the event series along with proprietary data from Temenos to provide an in-depth look at banking in South Africa, today, tomorrow and well into the future.
                                An important part of what we do at Temenos is to create and foster a community within the banking and fintech ecosystem
                            



The inaugural think-tank gathering, taking place at the Equinox Leadership & Innovation Centre in Johannesburg on 22 November will begin the series by discuss the concept of banks becoming digital to the core. John Schlesinger, Chief Enterprise Architect for Temenos will facilitate the discussion on the day.



Jean-Paul Mergeai, Managing Director Middle East & Africa at Temenos, commented: "An important part of what we do at Temenos is to create and foster a community within the banking and fintech ecosystem. Our clients, partners and our MarketPlace technology providers form the most dynamic banking technology community. Our industry is facing structural changes right now in terms of customer expectations, regulatory requirements, new entrants as well as a genuine technological revolution. Through this think-tank, we are creating a forum where leading bankers from South Africa can come together to share knowledge and address the challenges and opportunities they face on a day-to-day basis. With some of the world’s most innovative and technologically advanced financial institutions coming from South Africa, this seemed like the perfect country to lead this conversation on what the Bank of the Future will look like.”



Temenos has more than 20 years of experience in providing universal, central, microfinance and Islamic banking solutions to banks in the African continent with over 80 customers across East and West Africa. Winners of the Best Digital Banking Solution at the 2018 East African Banking Awards, as well as Best Islamic Banking & Finance Software Solution at the World Finance Islamic Finance Awards 2018, Temenos plans to continue capitalizing on its strong growth in the region. The company remains dedicated to providing the world’s number one banking software to banks and financial institutions of all sizes throughout Africa.