BANGUI, Central African Republic, November 30, 2018/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Merck Foundation (Merck-Foundation.com), the philanthropic arm of Merck Germany met The First Lady of Central African Republic – C.AR., H.E. MADAM BRIGITTE TOUADERA to underscore their commitment to build healthcare capacity in the country. The discussion was led by Prof. Dr. Frank Stangenberg Haverkamp, Chairman of the Executive Board of E. Merck KG and the Chairman of Merck Foundation Board of Trustees and Dr. Rasha Kelej, CEO of Merck Foundation & President, Merck More Than a Mother. Merck foundation also awarded Her Excellency to acknowledge her efforts as “Merck More Than a Mother” Ambassador in the country. During the committee meeting, many new programs were finalized and launched in partnership with the Ministry of Health of C.A.R.  
        
                                    
                    
                        
                                                
                        
                        
                            VIDEO                        

                        
                            Merck Foundation Launch with H.E. President & First Lady of Central African Republic                        
                    
                
                            
                         Share
              
                
                
                
                
                
                
                
                
                
              
            
            
                 Copy Embed
            
        
        
    
    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.africa-newsroom.com/press/embed_video/21770/e" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen ></iframe> 
    





H.E. MADAM BRIGITTE TOUADERA, The First Lady of Central African Republic & Merck more than a Mother Ambassador emphasized “We are very thankful to Merck Foundation for launching their programs in our country. These programs will prove very significant in creating an impact on our people’s advancement, as health is very critical to our social and economic development. very I will continue to support and cooperate with Merck Foundation.”



“Our aim is to improve the health and wellbeing of people of the continent. Through Merck Foundation, we commit to the long term partnership with Ministry of Health and The first Lady foundation to build healthcare capacity in the country” Prof. Dr. Frank Stangenberg-Haverkamp explained.
                                Our aim is to improve the health and wellbeing of people of the continent
                            



“We are very happy to award our friend, Her excellency First Lady of Central African Republic, Madam Brigitte Touadera for her great efforts to empower infertile women as the ambassador of Merck More than a Mother. We have also underscored our long term partnership with her Foundation and Ministry of Health of C.A.R., led by Hon. Pierre SOMSE. Minister of Health to continue building healthcare capacity and train doctors in the fields of Diabetes, Hypertension, Fertility and cancer care. 

Our vision is to have a strong platform of health experts in Central African Republic in non-communicable diseases, within the next five years. We strongly believe this is the right strategy to improve the social and economic standards in Central African Republic and the rest of Africa”, emphasized Dr. Rasha Kelej, CEO of Merck Foundation.

Dr. Rasha Kelej, CEO of Merck Foundation & President Merck More than A Mother, together with H.E. MADAM BRIGITTE TOUADERA, The First Lady of Central African Republic & Merck more than a Mother Ambassador also conducted a special meeting with more than 100 infertile women who have been enrolled in the “Empowering Berna” project to establish small businesses and train them to be able to generate steady monthly income. They both pledged to support more childless women through Merck more than a Mother campaign. In partnership with the First Lady and ministry of health, Merck foundation will provide clinical training on fertility specialty to improve access to quality and equitable fertility care in the country.



Merck Foundation also approved a list of candidates to be enrolled in their one and two year oncology fellowship program as a contribution to improve cancer care in the country. Moreover, they will also provide on-line diabetes diplomas in French for Doctors from C.A.R as well as cardiovascular preventive medicines fellowship in Asia.