BANGUI, Central African Republic, November 27, 2018/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Merck foundation (www.Merck-Foundation.com) acknowledged the First Lady of Central African Republic for her efforts as “Merck more than a Mother” Ambassador in Central African Republic -C.A.R; Merck Foundation underscored their partnership with the First Lady and ministry of Health of C.A.R.



Merck Foundation, the philanthropic arm of Merck Germany underscored their commitment to build healthcare capacity in Central African Republic- C.A.R. during their high level meeting with The Head of State , H.E. FAUSTIN-ARCHANGE TOUADÉRA. The discussion led by by Prof. Dr. Frank Stangenberg Haverkamp, Chairman of the Executive Board of E. Merck KG and the Chairman of Merck Foundation Board of Trustees and Dr. Rasha Kelej, CEO of Merck Foundation to explain and discuss the programs which launched on the same day in partnership with The First Lady and ministry of Health of C.A.R.



H.E. FAUSTIN-ARCHANGE TOUADÉRA, the President of Central African Republic emphasized “Central African Republic needs the programs of Merck Foundation urgently. These training programs for specialized doctors are very critical for our people and their social and economic well-being. I wholeheartedly support Merck Foundation in our country, to enable the success of all their programs.”
                                Central African Republic needs the programs of Merck Foundation urgently
                            



“Through Merck Foundation, we commit to the long term partnership with Ministry of Health and The first Lady foundation to build healthcare capacity in the country “Prof. Dr. Frank Stangenberg-Haverkamp explained.



“I am very happy and proud to organize this meeting. This partnership will help us train specialized doctors in the fields of Diabetes, Hypertension, Oncology and Infertility care. This will help to contribute significantly towards social and economic development in Central African Republic. We are committed to lead Africa to a better future through changing the landscape of healthcare in the continent with special focus on French speaking countries in the next few years”, emphasized Dr. Rasha Kelej,



Merck Foundation together with  H.E. MADAM BRIGITTE TOUADERA, The First Lady of Central African Republic & Merck more than a Mother Ambassador have conducted a special meeting with more than 100 infertile women who have been enrolled in the “Empowering Berna” project to establish small businesses and train them to be able to generate steady monthly income. Dr. Rasha Kelej, President of Merck more than a Mother has pledged to support more childless women through Merck more than a Mother campaign. In partnership with the First Lady and ministry of health, Merck foundation will provide clinical training on fertility specialty to improve access to quality and equitable fertility care in the country.  

Merck foundation have also approved a list of candidates to be enrolled in their one and two year oncology fellowship program as a contribution to improve cancer care in the country. Moreover, they will also provide on-line diabetes diplomas in French for Doctors from C.A.R as well as cardiovascular preventive medicines fellowship in Asia.