NAIROBI, Kenya, November 15, 2018/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Merck Foundation marked the “World Diabetes Day” themed ‘The Family and Diabetes’ on 14th November 2018. Merck Foundation to provide One Year on-line Post-graduate Diploma in Diabetes Management from UK to the winners of the Merck Diabetes Award 2017. 
        
                                    
                    
                        
                                                
                        
                        
                            VIDEO                        

                        
                            Message from Dr. Rasha Kelej, CEO Merck Foundation on Merck Foundation Alumni, Dr. Sam Mucheru                        
                    
                
                            
                         Share
              
                
                
                
                
                
                
                
                
                
              
            
            
                 Copy Embed
            
        
        
    
    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.africa-newsroom.com/press/embed_video/21235/e" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen ></iframe> 
        
                                    
                    
                        
                                                
                        
                        
                            VIDEO                        

                        
                            First Diabetologist in Kenya from Merck Foundation Alumni, Dr. Sam Mucheru                        
                    
                
                            
                         Share
              
                
                
                
                
                
                
                
                
                
              
            
            
                 Copy Embed
            
        
        
    
    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.africa-newsroom.com/press/embed_video/21236/e" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen ></iframe> 
    





Merck Foundation (Merck-Foundation.com), the philanthropic arm of Merck KGaA Germany marked ‘World Diabetes Day 2018’ by announcing the winners of Merck Diabetes Awards 2017 and call for application for Merck Diabetes Award 2018.



“Merck Foundation launched ‘Merck Diabetes Award’ in 2016 in more than 30 African and Asian universities in partnership with health ministries. The aim is to build a platform of diabetes experts across the globe. This year we discussed the concept of involving our partners from First ladies and ministries of health in 10 African countries in selecting the winners and the candidates for this valuable diploma so that they can establish diabetes clinics across the counties in each country, this will be a strong milestone of improving access to quality and equitable diabetes care, not only in the capital but nationwide” emphasizes Dr. Rasha Kelej, CEO of Merck Foundation. 

Winners of the Merck Diabetes Award 2017 were announced this year. The award attracted over 500 concept submission applications from universities in Africa and Asia. The winners from each university have been provided with an opportunity to study for a one-year online Post Graduate Diabetes Diploma from the South Wales University, United Kingdom.

Merck Foundation will also provide an opportunity to winners from French speaking countries to enroll for a three month foundation Course on Diabetes in French, accredited by the Royal College of General Practitioners, UK.
                                Merck Foundation launched ‘Merck Diabetes Award’ in 2016 in more than 30 African and Asian universities in partnership with health ministries
                            

Merck Foundation also announced the call for application for the medical students to apply for the “Merck Diabetes Award” 2018-19 with the theme “Every Day is a Diabetes Day.” Medical graduates across African and Asian medical universities have been asked to submit a concept paper on how to improve diabetes early detection and prevention in their countries and how to encourage their society, scientific community, local authorities, media and relevant stakeholders to think and act on diabetes every day. The deadline for the submission of the entries is 31st January 2019.

“Merck Diabetes Award marks another milestone of our commitment to working with governments, academia and relevant stakeholders in building healthcare capacity with a focus on non-communicable diseases in developing countries,” added Dr. Rasha Kelej.



Dr. Goufon kuete Herve from Cameroon, an award winner from Merck Diabetes Award 2017 says, “As a physician working in a rural setting where most patients referred to tertiary hospitals, die on their way due to diabetic complications, this program will enable me to properly manage the patients, thereby reducing the morbidity and mortality associated with this health burden.”



Fu Mei Sian from Malaysia, another award winner said “I am delighted to be the winner of this award, as it this will enable me to improve my knowledge and experience and provide my expertise to the people of my country”

Meet some of the winners of “Merck Diabetes Awards 2017”, the Future Diabetes Experts, stay tuned for the 2018 winners:


	Dr.Nishmita.R, Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute, India
	Serge Yannick OUEDRAOGO, University Ouaga, Burkina Faso
	Mlondolozi Malloy, Walter Sisulu University, South Africa
	Misago Nadine, University of Burundi, Burundi
	Menaka Ponnamperuma, Postgraduate Institute of Medicine, Sri Lanka
	Victor Ekem, University of Ghana Medical School, Ghana
	Dr. Okello Samuel Moses, Makerere University College of Health Sciences, Uganda
	Dr. Goufon kuete Herve, Graduated from the University of Buea, Cameroon
	Amulo Anyoti, Kilimanjaro Christian College, Tanzania
	Dellaneira Setjiadi, Padjadjaran University, Indonesia
	Hassane Adamou Nasser, Alexandria University, Niger
	NDAGIWENIMANA Sylvain, University of Rwanda, Rwanda
	Judy G. Ayiega, Kenyatta University, Kenya
	Fu Mei Sian, University Malaya, Malaysia
	Dr. Adetola Rachael ADEYEYE, University of Ilorin, Nigeria
	Muzzammil Ismail, University of Cape Town, South Africa
	Mohamad Rahman Suhendri, Islamic University of Indonesia, Indonesia
	Papy Baosolange, University of Kivu, Democratic Republic of Congo
	Ashleigh Sent, University of Pretoria, South Africa
	Bersabeh Mekasha Kassaye, Addis Ababa University, Ethiopia
	David CHEA, University of Health and Sciences, Cambodia
	Mohamed A. Omar, University of Nairobi, Kenya
	Arifa Siddiqua, Dhaka University, Bangladesh
	Shingirai Muzondiwa, University of Botswana, Botswana
	Peva F. Gbagornah, A.M. Dogliotti College of Medicine, University of Liberia, Liberia