JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, June 19, 2018/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            South African enterprises will get a glimpse of the revolutionary future of customer experience next month, when Genesys, an international leader in omnichannel customer experience and contact centre solutions, brings G-Summit back to South Africa.





G-Summit South Africa, part of the global G-Summit series, is a must-attend CX summit for enterprises aiming to take their contact centres, service centres and overall CX to the next level. Presenting CX trends and roadmaps, predictions on the impact of next-generation technologies such as Artificial Intelligence and virtual reality, and showcasing the next wave of solutions, G-Summit paves the way for future-proof CX.



“We’re seeing revolutionary change in what customers expect, and in best-practice CX around the world in recent years,” says Adriaan van Staden, senior sales manager at Genesys. “Adapting to the changes means organisations need to break down the siloes that hamper seamless visibility across all customer engagements, so allowing them to deliver exceptional CX.  Into the future, organisations will need to have full visibility of every attempt to engage, across any platform, or risk losing those crucial moments of opportunity. Beyond the next-generation technologies that enable this, organisations need to develop a pioneering new organisational culture shift to support a cohesive approach to CX.”



At G-Summit Johannesburg, visionary South African organisations will discover exactly what customer expectation looks like today and into the future, in a talk by CX expert Prof. Adre Schreuder, CEO of Consulta. They will also learn about the future of AI in contact centres, discover trends in cloud centre transformation, get to grips with best practice agile CI in a digital age, and view the latest Genesys solutions to fast-track the journey to future CX.
                                G-Summit Johannesburg’s key themes – taking a visionary approach, charting new territory and moving forward to put CX at the heart of the future-proof enterprise
                            



Underlining the power of a pioneering approach, renowned explorer Riaan Manser will inspire delegates with a talk on his legendary journey by bicycle around the perimeter of Africa. For over 24 months, he pedalled a staggering 37 000km through 34 countries, some of which rank as the most dangerous on earth. And emphasizing the importance of contact centres, Evan Jones, CIO of the Harambee Youth Employment Accelerator, will outline how contact centre technology is changing lives.



“G-Summit Johannesburg’s key themes – taking a visionary approach, charting new territory and moving forward to put CX at the heart of the future-proof enterprise – are designed to help local enterprises start their journeys into a brave new world of CX,” says van Staden.



G-Summit Johannesburg will be presented by Genesys in partnership with platinum sponsor Anana, gold sponsors Dimension Data, Elingo and Pivotal Data, silver sponsor Bytes, and business partners AudioCodes, Genii Analytics and Headset Solutions at The Forum in Bryanston on 17 July, 2018. For more information, visit: 

http://v2.itweb.co.za/event/genesys/g-summit-johannesburg-2018/