GABORONE, Botswana, June 6, 2018/APO Group/ -- 
                                                
                        Nine teams converged at Avani Hotel in Gaborone, Botswana for the Africa Women’s 7s tournament which was held on the 26th and 27th May 2018 at the National Stadium.


                            In terms of rugby particularly by women players, it capped off a month focusing on women empowerment and advocacy
                        

The two day event saw Kenya, who was clear favorites get crowned queens of Africa women’s rugby 7s in the absence of defending champions South Africa. It was the hosts Botswana Vultures who won the hearts of locals after winning one game on Day one against Madagascar and drawing five all against Zambia. On Day two, the locals inexperience at such a level proved their downfall as they lost consecutively against Tunisia and Senegal only to redeem themselves against Zambia again to finish seventh. To be fair to them, they showed great potential and they will certainly give teams a run for their money next year.

Botswana Rugby Union (www.BotswanaRugbyUnion.co.bw) President Mr Lesedi Keekae had this to say: “The tournament was a success and provided an opportunity for Botswana to showcase its hosting capabilities including our facilities and that famous Tswana hospitality. In terms of rugby particularly by women players, it capped off a month focusing on women empowerment and advocacy which started with Botswana hosting the International Working Group of Women conference followed by Rugby Africa Women Leadership workshop.  Botswana therefore continued to be on the spotlight and at the forefront of women empowerment agenda in Africa and the world.”

The President also couldn’t hide his pride for his team: “For our ladies team it was a chance to once more get back into the continental competitions and attain a ranking. Our ladies met and exceeded the targets set for them with little experience and we can only build on the momentum to develop a competitive side that can compete with the best in Africa and the World. They deserve all the support and congratulations and my endeavor is to avail the little resources to them. Women rugby is the low hanging fruit that we need to focus on in the short term with high potential for good results. Thanks to all the teams which participated for the show of great sportswomanship, professionalism and dedication to the game. They remain an inspiration to most kids and we ca learn more from them.”