PRETORIA, South Africa, June 5, 2018/APO Group/ --
                                                
                        The Minister of Communications, Ms. Nomvula Mokonyane, has extended a congratulatory message to the South African Broadcasting Cooperation (SABC) for the rebranding of SABC News across its television, radio and online platforms.

 



The revamp, launched today with the hashtag #BlackIsHere is a most welcome development and reflects the journey towards a new organisational culture and focus at the public broadcaster.



On the occasion of the budget vote of the Department of Communications, Minister Mokonyane said “We are determined to restore the SABC to financial stability, editorial credibility and to being a public broadcaster of integrity that supports our objectives of social-cohesion and nation-building. We want to really engage in intense conversation with South Africans on building the SABC that reflects our diverse nation.”


                            We want to really engage in intense conversation with South Africans on building the SABC that reflects our diverse nation
                        

The new brand identity accompanied by a commitment to independence and impartiality is a reflection on the commitment of both the shareholder and the SABC Board and management to ensuring that a New Dawn rises at the Broadcaster. 



The rebranding includes the repositioning of online platforms with special emphasis on aligning the content with the dynamic and ever-changing communication culture in society. 



“As the shareholder and working with our entities, part of our focus is to also promote investment in the development and production of content in order to provide space for young, smart minds and stars to thrive within the sector. Therefore, this renewal and rebranding must also seek to find and nurture new talent in our newsrooms whilst retaining talent that has the requisite skills, ideas and ethical commitment to serving our diverse nation” said Minister Mokonyane. 



“We must open the SABC for the best and upcoming news anchors, reporters, cameramen and readers to thrive and rise in the sector, especially young women and Africans.” 



The Minister added that she hopes the face-lift will give SABC a fresh new look and brand identity in the eyes and ears of Citizens by telling South African stories in a new, informative, educational and modern fashion.