PRETORIA, South Africa, August 20, 2018/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The Standing Committee on Appropriations focused the  second day of its oversight visit in the Free State Province on Health facilities in Thabo Nchu, Free State. The committee was also supported by the Free State Province’s Standing Committee on Public Accounts.





The committee first visited Dr JS Moroka Hospital and followed by Phekolong Clinic, Reddersburg and later Nelson Rholihlahla Mandela Clinic.



Opening the stakeholder engagement session, the Chairperson of the committee Ms Pinky Phosa said: “As the committee we are aware that the Free State Province has prioritised these key health infrastructure improvement services: to refurbish old buildings, mechanical and electrical maintenance backlogs and to attend to the provision of medical equipment backlogs”.



The committee commends the Free State Health Department of Health for its commitment to addressing infrastructure problems and to strengthening human resource capacity. “Indeed, Health infrastructure is the backbone of efficient public health care, which is in turn the pillar of a vibrant, healthy and prosperous society and it contributes towards thriving economy, added Ms Phosa.



The committee was disappointed at DR JS Moroka hospital management reception. The management didn’t have a prepared presentation to present. Instead they presented an old presentation that was presented to the National Council of Provinces early this year.



The overall status of health facilities visited on Wednesday showed strong signs of efficient, effective and improvement in management systems.



The committee also commended Phekolong Clinic management for the excellent manner in which the clinic is managed. The clinic is an exceptional example of sheer excellence.



General challenges picked up almost across all visited heath facilities include budget constraints, absence of facility management plan, shortage of staff and non-payment of overtime to duly deserving staff, no budget for infrastructure maintenance including medical equipment.



“Generally we are pleased with what we have seen today, this means that all state agencies must take active steps to improve operational efficiencies and accelerate the effectiveness of service delivery,” Said Ms Phosa.