PRETORIA, South Africa, August 29, 2018/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The National Council of Provinces (NCOP) delegation in Kopanong Local Municipality in Xhariep District today kick-started the feedback process to members of the community in the area on progress made on various service delivery issues, which were raised last November during the Taking Parliament to the People (TPTTP) programme held in the Mangaung Metropolitan Municipality in the Free State province.





The key focus areas of the 2017 TPTTP programme were the delivery of healthcare services in the Xhariep District and Mangaung Metropolitan Municipalities. The NCOP delegation in Kopanong, led by both the NCOP House Chairperson for International Relations and Members’ Support, Ms Masefakgo Dikgale (leads Kopanong South) and Ms Lungelwa Zwane (leads Kopanong North), will receive a comprehensive feedback throughout this week on what the Department of Health, provincial and local authorities have done so far. Kopanong consists of nine towns: Trompsburg, Edenburg, Bethulie, Phillipolis, Springfontein, Reddersburg, Gariep Dam, Jagersfontein and Fauresmith.



This morning the delegation (both groups) was briefed by the officials from the Department of Health in the Xhariep District on what has been done since the 2017 visits to improve the quality of healthcare and infrastructure on the facilities in the area. The delegation was pleased to find out that key challenges that faced health facilities in the area such as lack of medical equipment, shortage of ambulances that leads to poor response time, Human Resources issues, for example acting positions and unacceptable staff attitudes in some facilities, now have been addressed.



During the week-long oversight activities in Kopanong, the NCOP Delegation will visit clinics and hospitals and meet with government officials responsible for health in the Free State, councillors and other officials from national, provincial as well as local government. Taking Parliament to the People is an annual programme of the NCOP conceptualised in accordance with section 72 of the Constitution, which enjoins the NCOP to facilitate public participation in the legislative process and to conduct its parliamentary business in an open manner.



Today’s programme in Kopanong concludes with a site visit at Fauriesmith in Kopenong and Phekolong Clinic in Reddersburg. Tomorrow the delegation will visit Daimant District Hospital and Itumeleng Clinic in Jaggersfontein. Another site visit will be in Phillipolis Clinic and Sehularo Tau Clinic in Springfontein. On Thursday the delegation will visit Gariep Dam Clinic and Alfred Nzula District Hospital in Trompsburg. Thursday’s programme will culminate in a public meeting at Cloetes Park Community Hall where members of the public will raise matters affecting them, particularly on health care. Members of the media are invited to the public meeting.