PRETORIA, South Africa, August 21, 2018/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            On the last day of its week long oversight visit programme in KwaZulu Natal province, the Portfolio Committee on Health conducted an unannounced visit at Umlazi V clinic yesterday (17 Friday 2018).





The Acting Chairperson of the committee Mr Fish Mahlalela said: “We were shocked in one clinic at Umlazi, what we saw there is appauling”.



The committee gave an update to the KwaZulu Natal’s MEC for Health, Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo on its findings during the unannounced visit .



The committee said the facility does not qualify to be a clinic as there is not even a single element that makes it to be referred to as a clinic. TB patients, babies, children are all kept in one area. “It is a worrying situation”, said Mr Mahlalela. The situation is bad and demands an urgent intervention.
                                We were shocked in one clinic at Umlazi, what we saw there is appauling”
                            



The clinic is a simple conversion of a house into a clinic to assist the community. The clinic Manager Mr Khulekani Myeni said the clinic is not an ideal one, the consultation rooms are small as space is a challenge, nurses have to share when they see patients thereby mixing males and females at times. The clinic is not maintained and as a result toilets are blocked.



Mr Myeni told the committee that at times the clinic runs out of water and there is no backup plan in place.



 “You have a problem in the clinic and you cannot afford to have bigger problems”, said Mr Mahlalela



The committee said the clinic is a disaster and it is unacceptable that people can be provided health services under appalling conditions. 



The MEC told the committee that a decision was taken to close the clinic as there is a better functioning clinic nearby. The committee called on the MEC to urgently attend to, and address Umlazi V clinic.