PRETORIA, South Africa, August 22, 2018/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            3rd Conference of African Network of Parliamentary Budget Offices – The Role of African Parliaments in Fiscal Oversight, Contribution to The African Union Development Agenda:



22 – 23 AUGUST
9.00 – 17.15 (22 AUGUST), 9.30 – 15.00 (23 AUGUST)
E249, SECOND FLOOR NATIONAL ASSEMBLY BUILDING, PARLIAMENT





Media are invited to the 3rd annual conference of the African Network of Parliamentary Budget Offices (AN-PBO), hosted by the South African Parliament’s Parliamentary Budget Office.



The AN-PBO is a platform for African Parliamentary Budget Offices and similar institutions to share ideas and experiences about strengthening support for parliamentary fiscal oversight. The inaugural conference, held in August 2016, established the AN-PBO and laid the foundation to build a platform for information sharing among African countries that have PBOs and those considering establishing them. The forthcoming 3rd conference aims to further advance these goals and to strengthen support given to parliamentarians in their fiscal oversight role within the continent.



Delegates expected to attend come from countries in Africa and across the world, including those with PBOs and representatives of international organisations supporting legislatures’ oversight of public funds. Members of the South African Parliament and Provincial Legislatures and representatives from Institutions Supporting Democracy are also expected to attend. Parliament’s Executive Authority, National Assembly Speaker Ms Baleka Mbete and National Council of Provinces Chairperson Ms Thandi Modise, are scheduled to address the conference at 10.20.



Panel discussions tomorrow and on Thursday will focus on:


	Progress in African Parliamentary Budget Offices
	Public finance situation and development path in Africa
	PBO governance structures: International experiences lessons of best practices
	PBO and support for fiscal oversight
	Technical analysis and other work by PBOs – Budget Analysis
	Communicating the analysis outcomes
	Public participation in the budget process






South Africa’s Money Bills Amendment Procedure and Related Matters Act of 2009 made establishment of the South African Parliament’s PBO possible. The Act and the Constitution empowers Parliament to make amendments to the budget – not only to approve or reject it. The PBO of the South African Parliament, in existence since 2013, has been assisting Parliament to exercise this substantive constitutional mandate. Through its regular reports and assessments, the PBO has provided the means for Parliament to interrogate the budget more thoroughly.