NAIROBI, Kenya, August 30, 2018/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            This year's conference themed 'Re-focusing regional trade, energy and arbitration' will take place on the 30th & 31st August 2018 at the African Union HQ in Addis Ababa Ethiopia.





The Attorney General of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, H.E Ato Birhanu Tsegaye will join other regional and international Speakers at the conference where he will deliver the keynote address.



Other regional keynote speakers include; The President of East Africa Courts of Justice, Hon Justice Dr. Emannuel Ugirashebuja and Richard Mugisha who is the president of the East Africa law society.





Started 6 years ago, the East Africa International Arbitration Conference (EAArbitration.com) has evolved into a vehicle that brings together all the strands of knowledge, experience and expertise needed to produce a world-class arbitration ecosystem in East Africa and an engine for innovation in International arbitration.



This year's conference has attracted very senior Government and private sector practitioners who see Arbitration as an important tool in Africa' development and seek to build capacity.



Participants include amongst others, Prof Githu Muigai, immediate former Attorney General of Kenya, H.E Amason Kingi, Governor of Kilifi County Kenya and Senators Mutula Kilonzo Junior, Samson Cherakey and Senator Sylvia Kasanga.







Discussion points are aimed to promoting regional efforts towards the development of International Arbitration, using evidence based techniques to improve arbitration practice and policy in East Africa.



Our host nation Ethiopia has recently announced plans to open up key sectors previously controlled by the Government to Private Sector, this provides an incredible opportunity for regional and international Private sector and further profiles Ethiopia as a model Economy for Africa.



Within our borders, there is a renewed momentum to drive regional trade, building on Africa's strengths, the recent signing of the Africa Continental Free trade agreement by a majority of the African Union member states is a confirmation of our shared vision across Africa for integrated, open markets creating economies of scale.

EAIAC isn’t just a conference, it has grown to become a must attend annual regional forum and attracts 100s of delegates representing Industry leaders drawn from key sectors of the region’s economy, regulators, Governments, Judges, magistrates and arbitration professionals.

The conference is a platform too for International law firms to showcase their Africa practice at the same time a place for us to show case some of Africa’s best practices.

EAIAC 2018 will build on the success of the previous conferences held in Addis Ababa (2013), Nairobi (2014), Dar es Salaam (2015) and Kampala (2016) and Kigali (2017).

EAIAC Team

The organising committee is constituted by arbitration and investment advisory practitioners from East Africa and beyond and has 4 members: Agnes Gitau, Partner at GBS Africa, a London- based Africa investment advisory; Wairimu Karanja, Director EnVantage Law, Leyou Tameru, Director at I-Arb Africa, and Elodie Dulac, Partner at King & Spalding, Singapore and Ethiopia university lecturer.

Strategic Partners

EAIAC 2018 is made possible by the support and collaboration of the following regional organisations;

Ethiopia Chamber of Commerce, Africa Union, Ethiopia Investment Authority, ACFTA, Kigali International Arbitration Centre, Kenya Law Society, Uganda Law Society, Tanganyika Law society, East Africa Law Society, Rwanda Bar Association, Chartered Institute of arbitrations Kenya, Nairobi Centre for International Arbitration, Ethiopia Lawyers Association, Tanzania Institution of Arbitrators, Cairo Regional Centre for International Commercial Arbitration and many others.