LONDON, United Kingdom, August 14, 2018/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            CRU Events (CRUgroup.com) and The African Fertilizer and Agribusiness Partnership (AFAP) are working with partners across Africa to offer brownfield projects seeking capital investment, the chance to make a showcase presentation to an audience of global investors and financiers.




This opportunity to raise finance, named the “Investment Showcase” will take place at the CRU Africa Fertilizer Agribusiness 2018 Conference. The conference, now in its 4th edition, will be held 24-26 September 2018 in Cape Town, South Africa. The event typically attracts more than 400 senior fertilizer executives and agribusiness stakeholders from across the global fertilizer and agribusiness supply chain.


Tom Willatt, Portfolio Director for Fertilizer Events at CRU said, “Through our unique partnership with AFAP, the conference provides unrivalled networking opportunities with senior decision-makers from the biggest fertilizer buyers and manufacturers in some of the world’s fastest growing fertilizer markets. The event has gone from strength to strength, and CRU and AFAP are both delighted to be able to build on the success of the event by creating the opportunity for brownfield projects in Africa to meet with and present to the investment community and increase their chance of securing funding”
                                The conference, now in its 4th edition, will be held 24-26 September 2018 in Cape Town, South Africa
                            


Qualified and categorised projects will be selected that are seeking investment of over US$1m in brownfield projects and are focused on fertilizer, agri-inputs supply chain, agriculture, agro-processing and/or value addition sectors.


Projects will be selected on the strength of the proposal, with the intention to provide a diverse geographic range and representation from across the fertilizer and agribusiness supply chain. Investors that attend the showcase will be provided with a full package of information and will have the opportunity to meet and discuss with the project leaders seeking finance.


Submissions forms need to be completed and returned by 25 August 2018.


To request a copy of the submission form or to nominate a project, please email your name, project and a brief description of why you feel it is appropriate for a showcase position to Tom Willatt: Tom.Willatt@CRUGroup.com


The CRU Africa Fertilizer Agribusiness 2018 Conference is a comprehensive three-day event, centred on how partnership, investment and innovation can boost fertilizer trade and allow agribusiness to flourish in the African region. It promises to deliver a first-hand understanding of the challenges and opportunities, and offers unrivalled access to high-level, hard-to-reach decision-makers, to facilitate business opportunities for delegates.

Please visit AfricaFertilizerConference.com to find more details and book your place.