NAIROBI, Kenya, August 14, 2018/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Dalmus Chituyi, Felix Ayange and Curtis Lilako return for the Simbas final Rugby Africa Gold Cup clash away to Namibia on Saturday 18 August. Chituyi, the two try hero in the 45-36 win over Zimbabwe on 30 June missed last weekend’s 67-0 win over Tunisia through injury alongside former Kenya Sevens international Ayange who was recovering from the effects of a route canal while Lilako returns for the first time since the 45-36 home win over Zimbabwe on 30 June.



Commenting on their inclusion, Head Coach Ian Snook said, “Dallo is in as we have a 6/2 bench this game. It has been crucial in a couple of other games with fresh forwards coming on late in the game and making a telling difference. We hope this will be the same. Felix is on the bench as he can cover many positions and is competent in them all. He is a tough competitor and we know he will be up for the physical battle. Biko who usually fills this role is carrying an injury. Curtis is back in so we can utilize his experience and cool head late in the game.”
                                Our hopes and aspirations is that we play really well and piece together 80 minutes of what has only been seen for 40 or so minutes in the other games
                            



Snook also talked about his expectations from the match against Namibia, saying,” Our hopes and aspirations is that we play really well and piece together 80 minutes of what has only been seen for 40 or so minutes in the other games. It has been difficult with no warm up games and going in cold for one off test matches. The Tunisian game provided a bit of everything which the players will learn from. I’m expecting that the players are ready for an 80 minute effort and are really looking forward to it.”



Kenya squad to Namibia

Isaac Adimo (Kenya Harlequin), Martin Owilah (KCB), Samson Onsomu (Resolution Impala Saracens), William Ambaka (Kenya Harlequin), Darwin Mukidza (KCB), Tony Onyango (Menengai Cream Homeboyz), Peter Kilonzo (KCB), Oliver Mang’eni (KCB), Jacob Ojee (KCB), Mohamed Omollo (Menengai Cream Homeboyz), Felix Ayange (Kabras Sugar), Dalmus Chituyi (Menengai Cream Homeboyz), Curtis Lilako (KCB), Peter Karia (KCB), Elkeans Musonye (Strathmore Leos), George Nyambua (Kabras Sugar), Andrew Chogo (Kabras Sugar), Malcolm Onsando (Kenya Harlequin), Patrick Ouko (Menengai Cream Homeboyz), Moses Amusala (KCB), Joseph Odero (Kabras Sugar), Colman Were (Kabras Sugar), Davis Chenge (KCB, Captain)