ABUJA, Nigeria, March 6, 2018/APO Group/ --
                                                
                        The former deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria and founder of the Institute of Governance and Economic Transformation, Professor Kingsley Moghalu (https://KingsleyCMoghalu.com) has declared his intention to run as a candidate in the Nigerian presidential elections in 2019.





This was announced during a press conference held at the Shehu Musa Yar’Adua Centre, Abuja on Wednesday, 28 February, 2018.



Stating his vision, one laid out extensively in his recently launched book, ‘Build, Innovate and Grow: My Vision for Our Country’, Moghalu explained that he is taking a stand to unify Nigeria beyond ethnicity to break the stranglehold that the current political class has on leadership, to put the country on the right path and move it forward.



“We must stop recycling failed politicians and regenerate our leadership ranks with competent and experienced young men or women. Youths who have prepared themselves with the relevant qualifications must take over the mantle of leadership because this struggle is about the future of Nigeria, not its past. Strong, knowledgeable guidance is needed, and I offer myself for service with a solid track record of leadership,” he said.
                            Youths who have prepared themselves with the relevant qualifications must take over the mantle of leadership because this struggle is about the future of Nigeria, not its past
                        



Emphasising the importance to modernise Nigeria, the candidate also stated that competence, capacity, and character are required to reorient Nigeria into a strong and capable country – qualities that citizens should demand their president should possess.



“If it is about competence, my work as a Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria who played a leadership role in rescuing and stabilising the Nigerian banking system after the global financial crisis speaks for itself. In capacity, working in the United Nations to reconstruct countries torn by civil war or internal reform of the world body is there for everyone to see. About character, my colleagues, mentors, friends, and of course, my family are there to answer anyone,” he stated.



Professor Moghalu also explained that although he has been approached by a number of political parties, he would still focus on the people of Nigeria rather than parties that have been vehicles for capturing power. He stated that his decision to join any political party will be based on commonality of vision and the importance of a generational shift in political leadership, as he promised that his decision will soon be announced.



A global leader who has made contributions to the stability, progress and wealth of nations and communities across academia, economic policy, entrepreneurship, diplomacy and more, Kingsley Moghalu has taught and inspired citizens from more than 40 countries in North America, Europe, Africa and Asia, mentoring men and women for leadership roles in business, military intelligence, non-profits, and government service.



As Deputy Governor of the CBN from 2009 – 2014, he also led the execution of extensive reforms in the Nigerian banking system after the global financial crisis. He has also had extensive experience working for the United Nations from 1992 – 2008, where he retired from in the highest career bracket as a Director.