NEW YORK, United States of America, January 23, 2018/APO Group/ -- 
                                                
                        The Dag Hammarskjöld Fund for Journalists is now accepting applications from professional journalists from mainly developing countries for its 2018 fellowship program. The application deadline is March 12, 2018.



The fellowships are available to radio, television, print and web journalists, age 25 to 35, from developing countries who are interested in coming to New York to report on international affairs during the 73rd session of the United Nations General Assembly. The fellowships will begin in early September and extend to late November and will include the cost of travel and accommodations in New York, as well as a per diem allowance. 



The fellowship program is open to journalists who are native to one of the developing countries in Africa, Asia, and Latin America/the Caribbean and are currently working for media organizations. Applicants must demonstrate an interest in and commitment to international affairs and to conveying a better understanding of the United Nations to their readers and audiences. They must also have approval from their media organizations to spend up to three months in New York to report from the United Nations.



In an effort to rotate recipient countries, the Fund will not consider journalist applications for 2018 from nations selected in 2017: Afghanistan, Nigeria, Sudan and Zimbabwe. Journalists from these countries may apply in 2019.



A minimum of four journalists are selected each year after a review of all applications. The journalists who are awarded fellowships are given the incomparable opportunity to observe international diplomatic deliberations at the United Nations, to make professional contacts that will serve them for years to come, to interact with seasoned journalists from around the world, and to gain a broader perspective and understanding of matters of global concern. Many past fellows have risen to prominence in their profession and countries. The program is not intended to provide basic skills training to journalists; all participants are media professionals.



Full fellowship eligibility criteria and documentation requirements as well as the fellowship application form and other instructions can be found on the Fund’s web site at www.UNJournalismFellowship.org



Questions about the program, eligibility and application process can be directed by email to Fellowship2018@UNJournalismFellowship.org.