NAIROBI, Kenya, January 22, 2018/APO Group/ --
                                                
                        Britain’s Secretary of State for International Development, the Rt Hon Penny Mordaunt, has hailed the “incredible power of technology to deliver aid in new ways” on her first official visit to Kenya.





While in the country, Ms. Mordaunt saw how UK aid is supporting vulnerable communities in Marsabit County devastated by East Africa’s drought. In Nairobi, Ms Mordaunt also heard how UK support for innovative programmes is helping to create jobs for a rising population.



Ms Mordaunt was also in the country to hear from British business about how new technology has helped them tap into the Kenyan market. The UK is the fifth largest exporter of goods to Kenya and trade between the two countries is worth over £1 billion annually.



Ms Mordaunt also held a successful roundtable meeting with Kenya Cabinet Secretaries. The meeting chaired by the Cabinet Secretary for the National Treasury, Mr. Henry Rotich focused on ways of enhancing Kenya-UK bilateral relations and developing a partnership that will benefit both Kenya and the UK. The meeting also discussed President Kenyatta’s big four priorities: manufacturing, affordable housing, universal health care and food security for all Kenyans and agreed to work together to promote this agenda.  



During the meeting, the two governments agreed to co-host with the International Disability Alliance, the Global Disability Summit in London in July 2018 as a signal of commitment to work for all people.





During her visit the International Development Secretary, launched the second phase of Trade Mark East Africa. The UK is significantly scaling up its support to trade and regional integration across East Africa, now providing a total of £211m to the second phase of TradeMark East Africa.  This will increase sustainable and shared prosperity in East Africa and specifically:




	invest in improving the efficiency and capacity of transport, logistics and trade infrastructure at key port and border points;
	invest in systems to improve trading standards, reduce non-tariff barriers and enhance transparency in trade processes;
	improve the regulatory and policy environment for trade; and
	support private sector advocacy for trade competitiveness, the export capacity of East African businesses and the greater participation of women and small and growing businesses in trade.




Ms Mordaunt also announced the launch of a partnership programme, to support the Government of Kenya on urban economic planning and investment.



In addition, the Secretary of State, set out further UK aid support of £19.8m to the Hunger Safety Net Programme – an innovative cash-transfer scheme bringing together biometric technology and mobile money .This will help more vulnerable households and support the Government of Kenya to own, manage and ultimately fund the programme.



Ms Mordaunt also announced £10 million support to improve nutrition for families with acutely malnourished children and pregnant and breastfeeding women.



International Development Secretary Penny Mordaunt said:



“I have seen how in the face of East Africa’s devastating drought, UK aid works and is saving lives.



“But 2018 will bring more desperate weather conditions to the region. This is a stark reminder that we need to back new ideas to future-proof against the biggest challenges in Africa. 



“Here in Kenya technology is delivering UK aid in new ways, from innovative cash transfers using biometrics, through to trade technologies that support economic growth, jobs and investment. 



“It is in all our interests that we harness the best of British innovation with African entrepreneurialism – to create jobs, defeat poverty, and support our future trading partners, as we work towards a shared prosperous future.”  



Ms. Mordaunt’s visit to Kenya comes ahead of the Commonwealth Summit, taking place in London in April this year. The summit will bring together Heads of Government to discuss reforming and revitalising the Commonwealth, and establishing it as a modern organisation that is responsive to the global challenges we face today and in the future.