JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, January 26, 2018/APO Group/ -- 
                                                
                        Overseas Private Investment Corporation, the U.S. Government’s development finance institution, Executive Vice President David S. Bohigian on recent travel to Ghana, Togo, and Cameroon and previewing OPIC’s upcoming women’s initiative and agency priorities.



EVENT:

Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC), the U.S. Government’s development finance institution, Executive Vice President David S. Bohigian will provide a readout on his recent travel to Sub-Saharan Africa where he visited OPIC-supported projects in the health, energy, and housing sector as well as met with the Prime Minister of Togo. He will also preview OPIC’s upcoming women’s initiative and agency priorities.

This briefing will be on the record.

The telephonic briefing will take place on Tuesday, January 30 at 8:00AM ET/13:00 UTC.  During the briefing, the speakers will make brief opening remarks then take questions from the field.

DETAILS:
Speaker: OPIC Executive Vice President David S. Bohigian
Date: January 30, 2018
Time: 8:00 ET/13:00 UTC
* Please use Time Zone Converter to determine the start time of the event in your time zone.
Language: English.  French and Portuguese interpretation will be offered.
Ground rules: On the record.
Dial-in Info: To be provided once you RSVP
RSVP: RSVP to afmediahub@state.gov. Please specify English/French/Portuguese line, or request that we dial out to you (provide the phone number and language to be used).
Twitter: We will use #OPICinAfrica as the hashtag for the call. Follow us on @AfricaMediaHub and @opicgov.





LOGISTICS: 


	Callers should dial-in to the conference call 10-15 minutes early. 
	When an individual journalist dials-in, the operator will collect the caller’s name, press affiliation, and location.
	The moderator will facilitate the Q and A among the connected callers.  Journalists on the conference call will be instructed to press the “*” and “1” buttons on their phones in order to enter the question queue.  NOTE:  You can press “*1” at any time during the call to join the question queue, even before the moderator begins the Q and A portion.  We ask that journalists limit themselves to one question.  Journalists can also submit questions in English to afmediahub@state.gov prior to or during the call.  




BIO:
DAVID BOHIGIAN
Executive Vice President, Overseas Private Investment Corporation 

David Bohigian was appointed by President Donald J. Trump as the Executive Vice President of OPIC and joined the agency in August 2017.
Mr. Bohigian has extensive experience in both the public and private sectors. Before joining OPIC, he served as the Managing Director of Pluribus Ventures, where he advised financial services firms and growth companies. Earlier, he served on the core management team of Bridgewater Associates, and prior to that, he founded E2 Capital Partners, which developed new financing models for energy efficiency projects.

From 2005 to 2009, Mr. Bohigian held several senior positions at the U.S. Department of Commerce under the George W. Bush administration. As the Assistant Secretary for Market Access and Compliance in the International Trade Administration, he worked to ensure that American companies could compete fairly in international markets. Prior to that, he was the Director of the Department of Commerce’s Office of Policy and Strategic Planning, where he advised two Secretaries on economics and energy.

Earlier in his career, Mr. Bohigian worked as Managing Director for Idealab, Founder and Managing Director for VenCatalyst, and Director for Jefferson Partners, LLC. He earned his B.A. in journalism from Washington & Lee University and his J.D. from Washington University School of Law in St. Louis.