CAIRO, Egypt, December 17, 2018/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Celebrating the 50th anniversary of the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) in Egypt, the Egyptian Government and WFP yesterday signed an agreement to benefit neighbouring and African countries through the exchange of knowledge and expertise  in support of the Sustainable Development Goals, in particular the goal of Zero Hunger.



The agreement allows for WFP and the Government to share and expand its expertise on interventions in areas such as water management, nutrition, diversification of livelihoods and increased agricultural productivity.



“As we prepare to chair the African Union in 2019, we are determined to take our strategic partnership with the United Nations and its specialized agencies to new levels“ said Assistant Foreign Minister for Multilateral Affairs and International Security, Ambassador Ehab Fawzy.


                                I’m proud to witness WFP and the Government of Egypt take this direction towards expanding technical and learning experience with other developing countries
                            

The agreement was signed by WFP’s Senior Director for Strategic Coordination and Support, Stanlake Samkange and H.E. Ehab Fawzy during a joint anniversary celebration held by WFP and the Egyptian Ministry of Foreign Affairs.



“I’m proud to witness WFP and the Government of Egypt take this direction towards expanding technical and learning experience with other developing countries,” said Dr. Samkange. “This is a great opportunity to showcase Egypt and WFP’s many success stories and contribute to the development aspirations of Africa as whole.”



The agreement will be supported by the Luxor Coordination Center for Knowledge Sharing and Innovation to Promote Resilience in Upper Egypt. The centre developed by WFP in partnership with the Government, will facilitate knowledge-exchange activities, providing diverse and proven national expertise on development interventions.



“WFP and Egypt’s longstanding partnership is deeply rooted on a history of thriving cooperation and mutual understanding,” said WFP Representative and Country Director in Egypt, Menghestab Haile. “WFP remains a committed partner of the Government to achieve the 2030 Agenda, particularly through the positioning of Egypt as a key actor for regional cooperation.”

WFP has been in Egypt since 1968, working with the Government to respond to humanitarian needs and tackle the underlying causes of vulnerability to food insecurity and malnutrition in the country.