WASHINGTON D.C., United States of America, February 27, 2018/APO Group/ --
                                                
                        The Embassy of Zambia in Washington D.C has successfully participated in three largest annual travel and adventure tourism shows in the United States of America. Zambia’s Ambassador to the U.S His Excellency Dr. Ngosa Simbyakula, S.C. says the Mission’s active participation in the shows has raised Zambia’s tourism profile to over 100,000 U.S. travel agents, tour operators and potential tourists who visited the country’s stand at the Travel and Adventure shows that have been held in Washington, Chicago and Los Angeles.





Speaking after the Embassy concluded the first quarter of travel and tourism shows in Los Angeles over the weekend, Dr. Simbyakula said Zambia has hit record high in promoting its tourism industry to the U.S market. He reiterated the need for the Embassy to continue participating in these largest tourism shows as one of the strategies to attract more tourists from the U.S. into Zambia.



The Ambassador further noted that the embassy’s participation in the shows has set the tone for this year’s tourism sales and activities aimed at increasing the number of tourist inflows from the U.S.



And South African Airways Director, Sales Development – Western Region, Los Angeles Paula Newton says Zambia is a wonderful tourism destination point for most tourists from the U.S. Ms Newton has also urged Zambians in the film industry and other stakeholders to use the U.S newest Marvel movie, Black Panther as a platform to market Zambia’s tourism and culture potential. Black Panther has pictorial images of the Victoria Falls and also features U.S-based Zambian actor Patrick Shumba Mutukwa.



Ms. Newton whose is also a member of the Pan African film festival in Los Angeles has invited stakeholders in the film industry from Zambia to submit entries and participate at the annual film event to be held next year.



Meanwhile, Ethiopian Airlines-Los Angeles Traffic and Sales Manager Sasahulish Tekelemariam also said Zambia is one of the favourite tourist destinations for the airline and called for concerted efforts in promoting Zambia’s tourism.



The Los Angeles Travel and Adventure Show attracts over 35,000 attendees every year consisting of travel agents, tour operators, airlines and tourists. It is the largest of the top five shows in the U.S.