KAMPALA, Uganda, February 28, 2018/APO Group/ -- 
                                                
                        TradeMark East Africa (www.TradeMarkEA.com) will for the next two days host a regional trade forum (https://EATDF.trademarkea.com) at Speke Resort and Conference Centre in Munyonyo, Uganda. Uganda President H.E Yoweri Kaguta Museveni will open the event.



The forum is expected to address key issues around trade facilitation – including achieving results through partnerships, Information Communication and Technology for Trade, the future of East Africa’s infrastructure, increased participation of women and trade in East Africa among others.
                            We have made significant gains in reducing trade bottlenecks to grow prosperity in East Africa
                        

The event comes at a time when TMEA is starting its second phase (2018-2023) with a budget of about $380 million for infrastructure development, trade facilitation and private sector growth. This serves as an opportunity to reflect on the progress that East Africa has made and the priorities that the region should focus on to unlock its potential and compete in global trade.

Speaking before the event, TradeMark East Africa, Chief Executive Officer, Frank Matsaert noted: “We have come a long way as a region. We have made significant gains in reducing trade bottlenecks to grow prosperity in East Africa. Through the forum, we will be reviewing achievements made so far and exploring solutions to key trade challenges.”  

Key speakers that will be present at the forum include - H.E President Yoweri Kaguta Museveni, US Ambassador to Uganda Ms. Deborah Malac, Denmark Ambassador to Uganda Mr. Mogens Pedersen and Finland Ambassador to Kenya Ms. Tarja Fernandez. Also expected at the forum are Dr. Mukhisa Kituyi the Secretary General, UNCTAD; Liberat Mfumukeko, Secretary General, East African Community and Dorothy Tembo, Deputy Director, International Trade Centre among others.

Hon. Amelia Kyambadde, Uganda Minister of Trade, Industry and Cooperatives, will on Thursday March 1 2018 chair a plenary session on women and trade.  Other topics that will be addressed at the forum include – e-government for trade, trade logistics, East African ports and rail, among others.