POINTE NOIRE, Congo (Republic of the), February 9, 2018/APO Group/ -- 
                                                
                        Every week, Inspire Middle East will be broadcast to a global audience via Africanews (Africanews.com) and Euronews. This new flagship business and lifestyle programme will take viewers on a voyage of discovery through the region's commercial, creative and cultural landscape.



Inspire Middle East delivers the stirring and uplifting stories of people in the MENA region, from trendsetters and artists to entrepreneurs and thought leaders. Produced in Abu Dhabi, the show will also spotlight young and influential innovators who are helping to bridge the cultural and business gap between East and West.



Every Saturday at 20:10 WAT

Inspire Middle East makes its debut by illustrating how art and architecture in the UAE’s capital have culminated in a soft, yet powerful, cultural diplomacy.

Speaking exclusively to Africanews, UAE Minister, Her Excellency Noura al Kaabi engages in dialogue at the Louvre Abu Dhabi. Her Excellency discusses what the iconic museum represents and talks about how best to nurture burgeoning Arab artistic talent.



Watch the first episode here (https://goo.gl/pu46qu) 



In the episodes to follow, Inspire Middle East visits the homes of luminaries spanning the length and breadth of the region. One highlight is couturier-to-the-stars Elie Saab and his business partner wife Claudine Saab.



Inspire Middle East also explores the empowerment and future of the Arab youth, with the UAE’s Minister of State, His Excellency Zaki Anwar Nusseibeh in the imposing surroundings of his private library. The show will also take a ride across Dubai with Magnus Olsson, the co-founder of the MENA region's sole tech unicorn, Careem.


INSPIRE Middle East
Launch                                      Saturday 3rd February 2018
Duration                                    12'
Broadcast on Africanews          TV: Africanews English + Africanews French + digital platforms
                                                   > every Saturday at 20:10 WAT
Broadcast on Euronews            TV: Euronews English + Euronews French + digital platforms
                                                   > every Friday at 21:45 CET / 00:45 GST
Web                                           goo.gl/Hbz7kS
Executive producer                   Daleen Hassan 
                                                  Daleen.Hassan@ext.Euronews.com   @daleenhassan

Maithreyi Seetharaman is the launch anchor of the programme supported by Sky News Arabia.

About Daleen HASSAN - @daleenhassan

As executive producer, Daleen Hassan is the creative brains behind the concept of Inspire Middle East. She joined Euronews in 2010 and went on to become a seasoned 

Reporter and Deputy Editor, interviewing high-ranking figures in the MENA region and covering international current affairs.

In 2014 and 2015 she anchored Business Middle East, a weekly business show in Arabic and English.
Before joining Euronews, Daleen was a producer for Abu Dhabi TV and worked as producer, reporter and news anchor for several media outlets in the Middle East. 
Daleen, a Syrian-French journalist, has a Master’s degree from Lyon 2 Lumière University in Cinematography and Audiovisual Studies and a BA from The University of Damascus in Journalism and Media. She is fluent in Arabic, English and French.

About Maithreyi SEETHARAMAN - @maithreyi_s   
Maithreyi Seetharaman, based in London is an international political economics and business broadcaster for 17 years, Ms. Seetharaman started her own content and creation company, Facultas Media Ltd., five years ago. Through Facultas Media, she created Real Economy, which is beginning its fifth season on Euronews, where she serves as anchor and executive editor. 

Ms. Seetharaman is also the co-chair of the Fortune Most Powerful Women International Summits. In this role, she also represents Fortune MPW in the U.K., Europe, Africa & Asia. 

Previously, Ms. Seetharaman was co-host of CNBC’s Squawk Box Europe and Capital Connection, and she often anchored Worldwide Exchange and European Closing Bell.
She earlier served Bloomberg Television, as an anchor and stocks editor in both London and prior to that, New York. Before joining Bloomberg, she was a prime time anchor for CNBC TV18 in India and a reporter for the Indian national financial daily 'The Financial Express'. 
Ms. Seetharaman holds two master’s degrees, one in International Relations and the other in Broadcast Journalism.

Follow Africanews and Euronews teams on Twitter: @africanews; @euronews_group 
For breaking news follow: @africanews  @euronews