DAKAR, Senegal, May 7, 2018/APO Group/ -- 
                                                
                        The annual nomination meeting of the Selection Committee of The Africa Road Builders – Trophée Babacar NDIAYE was held on May 2nd in Dakar, Senegal.



The meeting was attended by representatives of several media from different sub-regions of Africa. The Selection Committee worked on the basis of the report made by Media for Infrastructure and Finance in Africa (MIFA). The Selection Committee also took into account the public reports of international institutions and organizations in the field of road and transport in Africa, as well as all relevant publications available and searchable in the relevant fields. The debates were open and frank. The decisions were submitted to three main criteria which are: the social impact of the projects, their environmental aspect and the quality of the financial arrangement.

At the end of the deliberations, the Selection Committee proceeded to the choice of the winner of the Super Prize Great Builder – Trophée Babacar NDIAYE of The Africa Road Builders 2018. Thus, is designated The Africa Road Builders Super Prize Great Builder – Trophée Babacar NDIAYE 2018, HE. Uhuru Kenyatta, President of the Republic of Kenya, for his personal leadership and for the transformation of the road network. The Committee also noted with great satisfaction the development of the railways and the simplification of air transport. Finally, the Selection Committee welcomes the particular efforts made by Kenya in public lighting.

The Selection Committee warmly congratulates the laureate and has the honor to inform him that the presentation of his trophy will take place on 23 May 2018 in Busan, Republic of Korea, on the occasion of the AfDB Annual Meetings, at a solemn ceremony sponsored by the President of the AfDB, Dr Akinwumi ADESINA.

The Selection Committee welcomes the declared desire of all African States to improve the quality of roads and transport. The Selection Committee encourages them all to carry out concrete projects that facilitate the mobility of all the peoples of the continent. The Selection Committee thanks and congratulates the AfDB and its President, Dr. Akinwumi ADESINA, for putting the issue of roads and transport high on its agenda through its governance program called "The High 5 to Transform Africa".

The Selection Committee salutes the previous winners of the Super Prize Great Builder – Trophée Babacar NDIAYE. He particularly expresses his admiration for HE. Macky SALL, President of the Republic of Senegal for the hospitality shown by the country and for the continuation of the great works that earned him the prestigious Trophée Babacar NDIAYE.
The Selection Committee joins forces with ACTUROUTES and the General Commission of The Africa Road Builders - Trophée Babacar NDIAYE to salute the memory of Dr. Babacar NDIAYE, former President of the AfDB, who continues to inspire this initiative. Together, the Selection Committee, ACTUROUTES and the General Commission join forces to express their infinite gratitude to the family of Dr. Babacar NDIAYE.

The President of the Selection Committee
Mr. Adama WADE
President of Media for Infrastructure and Finance in Africa (MIFA)
Director of Financial Afrik Magazine