NAIROBI, Kenya, May 31, 2018/APO Group/ -- 
                                                
                        Corruption has long undermined Kenya’s prosperity, security, and democracy.  It is, quite simply, theft from the Kenyan people.  As friends, we welcome the recent action by the Director of Public Prosecutions, working with the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, to charge officials and others in connection with reports of widespread corruption at the National Youth Service.  We also welcome President Kenyatta’s statements and actions to address the corruption scourge.  We urge that Kenya’s judiciary take swift action, consistent with the rule of law, to ensure fair trials and justice.





No country is free of corruption, and many of ours have faced challenges.  There are no shortcuts to tackling the problem.  It requires strong Kenyan political leadership, a commitment to zero tolerance for corruption, and all government and law enforcement agencies working together.  When there is evidence of corruption, those responsible should be prosecuted regardless of political party, social stature, or personal connections.  Individuals or organizations found guilty of stealing should be held accountable, to include forfeiting the proceeds of their crimes.  And Kenyans need strong, reliable institutions and systems that reduce the opportunities for corruption.



As partners, we stand with Kenyans in the fight against corruption.  Many of us are providing wide-ranging assistance and support in this effort and we will continue to do so.  We know Kenyans can end corruption.  The challenge is for all Kenyans to join hands, take decisive action, and make the changes that are needed. 






	
		
			
			
			
			
			Robert F. Godec

			Ambassador of the United States

			Stefano Dejak
			Ambassador, European Union Delegation to Kenya

			Anna Jardfeldt
			Ambassador of Sweden
			
			Frans Makken
			Ambassador of the Netherlands

			Jutta Frasch

			Ambassador of Germany

			

			Mauro Massoni

			Ambassador of Italy

			

			Pavel Rezac
			Ambassador of Czech Republic

			Frantisek Dlhopolcek

			Ambassador of Slovak Republic

			
			Lisa Doherty,

			Chargé' d'Affaires of Ireland

			
			
			
			Nic Hailey

			High Commissioner for the United Kingdom

			

			Mette Knudsen

			Ambassador of Denmark

			

			Ralf Heckner
			Ambassador of Switzerland

			

			Tarja Fernández

			Ambassador of Finland

			Alison Chartres

			High Commissioner for Australia

			

			Sara Hradecky

			High Commissioner for Canada

			

			Jacek Bazanski

			Ambassador of Poland

			

			Julia Pataki
			Ambassador of Romania

			

			Vebjørn Heines

			Chargé d’Affaires of Norway